Refactor vision blackout procedure (#4)
RoboCup-SSL/technical-challenge-rules: 2022/chapters/procedure.adoc

== Competition Procedure

There are multiple stages with increasing difficulty.
Participants will have 3 trials for each stage.
All trials will be considered for the overall score.

> Each trial will be attempted by all participants, who after another.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each trial will be attempted by all participants, one after another.
```

The starting configuration of the trial will be similar for each team to achieve same conditions for all participants.

If a participant can not attempt a trial for what ever reasons, no points are awarded for this trial.
Other trials are not effected.

The robots may move anywhere on the field within the walls.

> The ball may similarly move anywhere on the field throughout the time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly, the ball may move anywhere on the field throughout the time.
```

Any defined positions will always be inside the field boundaries.

=== Field setup

Challenges will be executed on a Division B sized field as described in the main SSL rules.

Because the vision patterns are not required, markings may be added to the field before a run to help the human judges verify that the robots are reaching the desired positions and orientations.
Participants should not expect a perfect field with no additional markings.
However, attempts will be made to keep the marks minimal and small to not interfere with on-board vision solutions.
Additionally, participants should expect visual aspects of the field to vary slightly, including the exact color of the carpet and walls, the width of line markings, etc.

=== Referee commands

Each trial will start with a *HALT* command.
Just before the start, a *STOP* command will be given to allow participants to prepare.

> When a *FORCE START* command is sent the timer is started and robots may move.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a *FORCE START* command is sent, the timer is started and robots may move.
```

> The trial will be stopped with a *HALT* command, when it was successful or time run out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The trial will be stopped with a *HALT* command after successful challenge completion or after the time ran out
```

=== Scoring

> Stage may define a set of criteria that give positive or negative points.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each stage may define a set of criteria which give positive or negative points.
```

Points will also be given if the overall objective was not achieved.

> The duration of the trial is used as a tie-breaker (faster is better).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The duration of a trial is used as a tie-breaker (faster is better).
```

=== Stage 1: Grab a Stationary Ball

> This stage is designed to be the easiest and demonstrate basic sensing and control capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This stage is designed to be the easiest and to demonstrate basic sensing and control capabilities.
```

The robot will need to detect a ball on the field, navigate to it, and place it on its dribbler.

==== Procedure

> - The supervisor defines a random robot starting position and orientation

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> - The supervisor defines a random ball starting position

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The supervisor defines random starting positions for robot and ball, as well as a random orientation for the robot.
```

- Robot and ball are moved to their starting positions
- The trial is started
- The trial is stopped after one minute or if the robot did not move for 10 seconds after moving at least once

==== Scoring

- Touching the ball with any part of the robot -- +1
- Touching the ball with the dribbler -- +1
- Robot stopped with the ball touching the dribbler at the end of the run-- +1

=== Stage 2: Scoring on an Empty Goal

> This stage requires that robots can localize a goal and itself The robot will need to detect the ball, move to it and score a goal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This stage requires robots to localize themselves as well as the ball on the playing field, move to the ball and score a goal.
```

==== Procedure

- The supervisor defines a random robot starting position and orientation
- The supervisor defines a random ball starting position
- Robot and ball are moved to their starting positions
- The trial is started
- The trial is stopped after one minute or if the robot scored a goal

==== Additional Rules

> - Either of the two goals can be used for scoring

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Either of the two goals may be used for scoring
```

==== Scoring

- Touching the ball with any part of the robot -- +1
- Touching the ball with the dribbler -- +1
- Ball entered any defense zone -- +1
- Ball entered any goal -- +1
- Robot entered any defense zone -- -1

=== Stage 3: Moving to Specific Coordinates

This stage is designed to demonstrate localization capabilities without the use of the global vision system.
No ball will be used for this stage.

==== Procedure

> - The supervisor defines a random robot target position
> - The supervisor defines a random robot starting position seed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The supervisor defines a random target position, random robot orientation and a random start position seed.
```

- Participants may enter the staring position seed and the target position into their robot configuration
- The supervisor defines a random robot starting orientation
- The supervisor defines a random robot starting position that is within 0.5 m distance to the position seed
- the Robot is moved to its starting positions and orientation
- The trial is started
- The trial is stopped after one minute or if the robot did not move for 10 seconds after moving at least once

==== Scoring

> Score is equal to the negative straight line distance between the robot's final position and the destination position.
> In other words, closer is better.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The score is equal to the negative straight line distance between the robot's final position and the destination position.
(In other words, closer is better)
```

=== Stage 4: Scoring an Indirect Goal (without Obstacles)

The objective of this stage is to score an indirect goal using two robots.

> Robots are required to recognize other robots, receive a ball and coordinate between each other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Robots are required to recognize other robots, receive a ball, coordinate between each other and finally to score a goal.
```

==== Procedure

- The supervisor defines a random ball starting position seed in the positive field half
- Robot 1 is placed at (0.5 m, 1.5 m, 0°)
- Robot 2 is placed at (0.5 m, 1.5 m, 0°)

> - The ball is placed at a random ball starting position that is within 0.5 m distance to the position seed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The ball is placed at a random starting position within 0.5 m distance of the position seed.
```

The trial will be stopped with a *HALT* command after successful challenge completion or after the time ran out

=== Scoring

Each stage may define a set of criteria which give positive or negative points.
Points will also be given if the overall objective was not achieved.
The duration of a trial is used as a tie-breaker (faster is better).

=== Stage 1: Grab a Stationary Ball

This stage is designed to be the easiest and to demonstrate basic sensing and control capabilities.
The robot will need to detect a ball on the field, navigate to it, and place it on its dribbler.

==== Procedure

- The supervisor defines random starting positions for robot and ball, as well as a random orientation for the robot.
- Robot and ball are moved to their starting positions
- The trial is started
- The trial is stopped after one minute or if the robot did not move for 10 seconds after moving at least once

==== Scoring

- Touching the ball with any part of the robot -- +1
- Touching the ball with the dribbler -- +1
- Robot stopped with the ball touching the dribbler at the end of the run-- +1

=== Stage 2: Scoring on an Empty Goal

> This stage requires robots to localize themselves as well as the ball on the playing field, move to the ball and score a goal.

Reviewer 2: I don't think robots needs to localize themselves here, don't the ball and the goal are sufficient?

Author: true, changed it from themselves to goal

==== Procedure

- The supervisor defines a random robot starting position and orientation
- The supervisor defines a random ball starting position
- Robot and ball are moved to their starting positions
- The trial is started
- The trial is stopped after one minute or if the robot scored a goal

==== Additional Rules

- Either of the two goals may be used for scoring

==== Scoring

- Touching the ball with any part of the robot -- +1
- Touching the ball with the dribbler -- +1
- Ball entered any defense zone -- +1
- Ball entered any goal -- +1
- Robot entered any defense zone -- -1

=== Stage 3: Moving to Specific Coordinates

This stage is designed to demonstrate localization capabilities without the use of the global vision system.
No ball will be used for this stage.

==== Procedure

- The supervisor defines a random target position, random robot orientation and a random start position seed.
- Participants may enter the staring position seed and the target position into their robot configuration
- The supervisor defines a random robot starting orientation
- The supervisor defines a random robot starting position that is within 0.5 m distance to the position seed

> - the Robot is moved to its starting positions and orientation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The robot is moved to its starting positions and orientation
```

Reviewer: oops, my mistake :D

also: 
```suggestion
- The robot is moved to its starting position and orientation.
```

- Pass hits the receiver robot dribbler -- +1

> - Ball entered defense zone -- +1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Ball entered a defense zone -- +1
```

- Ball entered goal -- +1

> - Robot entered defense zone -- -1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Robot entered a defense zone -- -1
```
